Update the developers plugin guide to use QubitDevice (#483)
XanaduAI/pennylane: doc/development/plugins.rst

.. _plugin_overview:

> Plugins and operations

Author: Should I change this back?

Reviewer: Perhaps _Building a plugin_ was slightly more introductory as a title, yes

Author: Changed it back 🙂

    returns correct expectation values.

The first step in creating your PennyLane plugin is to create your device class.

> This is as simple as importing the abstract base class :class:`~.QubitDevice` from PennyLane,

Reviewer 2: We expect here that the developer wants to develop a qubit plugin. Should that not be mentioned that this is a special case?

Reviewer 2: Maybe also mention why `Device.name` etc are attributes of the parent class...

Reviewer: I think this is a very good point! (I just realized that I also took it for granted that it should be a qubit based device for sure!)

Reviewer: What if there was a new page with the ``Device`` specific instructions which could then be updated once ``CVDevice`` is up and running?

Then a note here would suffice for people interested in building a ``CV`` based ``Device`` in the meantime

Author: Good idea!

Author: Will this make the TOC too long though? We are currently in the 'sweet spot'

Reviewer: Would it be possible to have the main page stay like this but have a separate one that wouldn't appear on the left bar but could be accessed from this page? That way neither the TOC would become longer nor would the PL sidebar have more items on the left.

Reviewer 2: I'd make it simple:  Just state here "We will demonstrate this with qubit-based devices inheriting from the QubitDevice class" or so. 

Either delete the "Supporting new CV operations" section altogether, turn its main message into a note box explaining more info is coming up, or just add a sentence pointing out why you talk about CV now.

In future, I'd make two subsections "Qubit" and "CV" even though it gets long. This will be read by only very few people who use it like a manual, it can be as long as it needs to IMO.

Author: Added this:
```rest
.. important::

    PennyLane supports both qubit and continuous-variable (CV) devices. However, from
    here onwards, we will demonstrate plugin development focusing on qubit-based devices
    inheriting from the :class:`~.QubitDevice` class.
```
Thanks @mariaschuld!

    operations = {"CNOT", "PauliX"}

> 

Reviewer: Cool that these are now supported by default! :blush:

Author: Yes, while writing this I realised that _every_ device that inherits from `QubitDevice` will support all observables automatically, so might as well add them by default.

  See :doc:`/introduction/operations` for a full list of operations
  supported by PennyLane.

* :attr:`.Device._capabilities`: a dictionary containing information about the capabilities of
  the device. Keys currently supported include:

  * ``'model'`` (*str*): either ``'qubit'`` or ``'CV'``.

>   * ``"inverse_operations"`` (*bool*): ``True`` if the device supports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * ``'inverse_operations'`` (*bool*): ``True`` if the device supports
```

For consistency?

    applying the inverse of operations. Operations which should be inverted

>     have ``operation.inverse == True``.

Reviewer 2: Maybe more specific than "have"? ("have the attribute"?)

Author: ```suggestion
    have the property ``operation.inverse == True``.
```

.. note::

    If your device does not natively support an operation that has the
    :meth:`~.Operation.decomposition` static method defined, PennyLane will
    attempt to decompose the operation before calling the device. For example,
    the :class:`~.Rot` `decomposition method <../_modules/pennylane/ops/qubit.html#Rot.decomposition>`_ will

>     decompose the single-qubit rotation gate to :class:`~.RZ` and :class:`~.RY` gates.

Reviewer: Really cool!

.. note::

    If the convention differs between the built-in PennyLane operation
    and the corresponding operation in the targeted framework, ensure that the
    conversion between the two conventions takes place automatically
    by the plugin device.

> Adding arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding arguments to your device
```

Reviewer: (Just a suggestion up for consideration :) )

> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------
```

Defining the ``__init__.py`` method of a custom device is not necessary; by default,
the :class:`~.QubitDevice` initialization will be called, where the user can pass the
following arguments:

* ``wires`` (*int*): the number of wires on the device.

* ``shots=1000`` (*int*): number of circuit evaluations/random samples used to estimate
  expectation values of observables in non-analytic mode.

> * ``analytic=True`` (*bool*): If ``True``, the device calculates probability, expectation

Reviewer 2: Do we need to say that hardware is always using `analytic=False`?

Author: done!

  values, and variances analytically. If ``False``, a finite number of samples
  are used to estimate these quantities.

To add your own device arguments, or to override any of the above defaults, simply
overwrite the ``__init__.py`` method. For example, consider a device where the number

> of wires is fixed to ``12``, cannot be used in analytic mode, and can accept a dictionary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of wires is fixed to ``24``, cannot be used in analytic mode, and can accept a dictionary
```

Author: oops, good catch

of low-level hardware control options:

.. code-block:: python3

    class CustomDevice(QubitDevice):
        name = 'My custom device'
        short_name = 'example.mydevice'
        pennylane_requires = '0.1.0'
        version = '0.0.1'
        author = 'Ada Lovelace'

        operations = {"PauliX", "RX", "CNOT"}
        observables = {"PauliZ", "PauliX", "PauliY"}

>     def __init__(self, shots=1024, hardware_options=None):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            def __init__(self, shots=1024, hardware_options=None):
```

Author: Good catch!

>         super().__init__(wires=24, shots=shots, analytic=False)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                super().__init__(wires=24, shots=shots, analytic=False)
```

>         self.hardware_options = hardware_options or hardware_defaults

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                self.hardware_options = hardware_options or hardware_defaults
```

Note that we have also overridden the default shot number.

The user can now pass any of these arguments to the PennyLane device loader:

>>> dev = qml.device("example.mydevice", hardware_options={"t2": 0.1})
>>> dev.hardware_options
{"t2": 0.1}

Device execution
----------------

Once all the class attributes are defined, it is necessary to define some required class
methods, to allow PennyLane to apply operations and measure observables on your device.

To execute operations on the device, the following methods **must** be defined:

.. currentmodule:: pennylane.QubitDevice

.. autosummary::

    apply
    probability

> (Click the name of each method to see more details and examples). The :class:`~.QubitDevice` class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            *(Click the name of each method to see more details and examples)*
The :class:`~.QubitDevice` class
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion here

Author: This will cause it to render as a block quote, however, which might make it stand out too much

> provides the methods :meth:`~.QubitDevice.active_wires` and

Reviewer 2: Nice to say what these methods mean?

Author: Done!

:meth:`~.QubitDevice.marginal_prob` for convenience.

> In addition, if your device generates its own computational basis samples for measured modes

Reviewer 2: Is it clear that in CV these are Fock basis samples? Is there a way to explain this a bit more (i.e. what is a sample for a measured mode)?

Author: ```suggestion
In addition, if your qubit device generates its own computational basis samples for measured modes
```
Currently, this is explicit for `QubitDevice`. Once `CVDevice` is created, it will also apply there (with an option to set a cutoff for simulators)

> after execution, you need to overwrite the following method:

Reviewer: This is such a great summary, will make the work of plugin developers so much easier! :relaxed:

.. autosummary::

    generate_samples

Note that ``self._samples`` has the shape ``(dev.shots, dev.num_wires)``.
Furthermore, PennyLane uses the convention :math:`|q_0,q_1,\dots,q_{N-1}\rangle` where

> :math:`q_0` is the most significant bit.

Reviewer: :laughing: :smile:

> :math:`q_0` is the most significant bit.

Reviewer: Nice notes! :blush:

And thats it! The device has inherited :meth:`~.QubitDevice.expval`, :meth:`~.QubitDevice.var`,
and :meth:`~.QubitDevice.sample` methods, that accepts an observable (or tensor product of
observables) and returns the corresponding measurement statistic.

:html:`<div class="caution admonition" id="aside1"><a data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#aside1" href="#content1" class="collapsed"><p class="first admonition-title">Advanced execution control (click to expand) <i class="fas fa-chevron-circle-down"></i></p></a><div id="content1" class="collapse" data-parent="#aside1" style="height: 0px;">`

Additional flexibility is sometimes required for interfacing with more
complicated frameworks.

> When PennyLane needs to evaluate a QNode, it accesses the :meth:`~.QubitDevice.execute` method of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When PennyLane needs to evaluate a :class:`~.QNode`, it accesses the :meth:`~.QubitDevice.execute` method of
```

Reviewer: (Perhaps it was not referenced since it is a wrapper around the ``QNode`` classes?)

Author: Exactly, since the QNode refactor there isn't one specific object that makes sense to reference here any more 😆

  which is the simple expectation value of the operator :math:`\hat{B}` evolved via the gate
  :math:`O(\phi_k)`.

  Note that if ``grad_recipe = None``, the default gradient recipe is
  :math:`(c_k, s_k)=(1/2, \pi/2)` for every parameter.

> The user can then import this operation directly from your plugin, and use it when defining a QNode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can then import this operation directly from your plugin, and use it when defining a :meth:`~.QNode`:
```

Author: Same comment here, there isn't a good candidate for this reference. In a lot of the documentation, we tend to use 'QNode' as a noun without referencing

* The method :meth:`~.Observable.diagonalizing_gates` should be defined. This method
  returns a list of PennyLane :class:`~.Operation` objects that diagonalize the observable
  in the computational basis. This is used to support devices that can only perform
  measurements in the computational basis.

For example:

.. code-block:: python

    class CustomObservable(Observable):
        """Custom observable"""
        num_params = 0
        num_wires = 1
        par_domain = None
        eigvals = np.array([0.2, 0.1])

        def diagonalizing_gates(self):
            return [PauliX(wires=self.wires), Hadamard(wires=self.wires)]

        @staticmethod
        def _matrix(*params):
            return np.array([[0, 1], [1, 0]]) / np.sqrt(2)

:html:`<div class="note admonition" id="aside1"><a data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#aside1" href="#content1" class="collapsed"><p class="first admonition-title">CV devices and operations (click to expand) <i class="fas fa-chevron-circle-down"></i></p></a><div id="content1" class="collapse" data-parent="#aside1" style="height: 0px;">`

**Note: CV devices currently subclass from the base** :class:`~.Device` **class. However, this

> class is deprecated, and a new** ``CVDevice`` **class will be available in the next major

Author: ```suggestion
class is deprecated, and a new** ``CVDevice`` **class will be available soon.**
```

> PennyLane release.**

Reviewer 2: Better: will be available soon? I learnt to not promise things if not absolutely necessary :)

> PennyLane release.**

Author: ```suggestion
```
